Ferrite.jl GSoC 2023 (#1823)
JuliaLang/www.julialang.org: jsoc/gsoc/ferrite-fem.md

# Ferrite.jl - Finite Element Toolbox - Summer of Code

[Ferrite.jl](https://github.com/ferrite-fem/Ferrite.jl) is a Julia package providing the basic building blocks to develop finite element simulations of partial differential equations.
The package provides extensive examples to start from and is designed as a compromise between simplicity and generality, trying to map finite element concepts 1:1 with the code in a low-level .
Ferrite is actively used in teaching finite element to students at several universities across different countries (e.g. Ruhr-University Bochum and Chalmers University of Technology).
Further infrastructure is provided in the form of different mesh parsers and a Julia based visualizer called [FerriteViz.jl](https://github.com/Ferrite-FEM/FerriteViz.jl).

Below we provide a four of potential project ideas in [Ferrite.jl](https://github.com/ferrite-fem/Ferrite.jl).

> However, interested students should feel free to explore ideas they are interested in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, interested students should feel free to explore ideas they are interested in. Please contact any of the mentors listed below, or join the `#ferrite-fem` channel on the Julia slack to discuss.
```

Projects in finite element visualization are also possible with [FerriteViz.jl](https://github.com/Ferrite-FEM/FerriteViz.jl).

## Adaptive Mesh Refinement

**Difficulty**: Medium-Hard

**Project size**: 300-350 hours

**Problem**: While [Ferrite.jl](https://github.com/ferrite-fem/Ferrite.jl) provides infrastructure for the most common tasks in finite element assembly, it lacks an adaptive mesh infrastructure for adaptive finite element technology.

> We started implementing a p4est type adaptive mesh refinement, which is a highly optimized data structure for this task, could not find time to finalize it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A preliminary implementation of a p4est type adaptive mesh refinement have been started, but not finalized yet.
```

Reviewer 2: "has been started"?

Reviewer: Updated.

Information about the existing implementation is summarized [here](https://github.com/Ferrite-FEM/Ferrite.jl/blob/mk/p4est/p4est-ferrite.md).

**Minimum goal**: Finalize the basic p4est implementation as described in the original paper [1], either starting from the [existing branch](https://github.com/Ferrite-FEM/Ferrite.jl/tree/mk/p4est) (recommended) or from scratch together with a set of tests.

> **Extended goal**: Intersting extensions might be to implement the optimizations proposed by Tobin Isaac [2], anisotropic refinement as in p6est [3] or generalizations to other geometries as in t8code [4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Extended goal**: Interesting extensions might be to implement the optimizations proposed by Tobin Isaac [2], anisotropic refinement as in p6est [3] or generalizations to other geometries as in t8code [4].
```
